these are my thoughts
	I like to think of them as journal entries,
but "poetry" will suffice
---
[]

{bios} was a group of "poetry" projects developed between 2012-2014 on Peoria Unified School District's student filesystem. It was initially released to the public in 2014, as the first "gate" of an untitled trilogy of planned art projects (though it is untitled, the URL path is named "bios" after this project). It was followed up by "antimoon", which opened in 2015, and [GATE 3 IS STILL UNFINISHED] which opened in [EVENTUALLY]. The early parts of {bios} were written before this grander trilogy was all planned, although even early entries in "bio" foreshadow things from the later gates.

This is an updated version of {bios}, made in November of 2020. {bios} was initially released in a form that resembled a miniature Alternate Reality Game, with strange pages and puzzles that linked you between "bio", "bio2", and "bio3". Besides absolutely requiring a desktop computer, (this updated version should make everything more mobile friendly) the puzzles were so esoteric I can confidently say that no one ever made it through all the way. I don't even know if anyone ever got to the first "bio". The successor to this project, "antimoon", didn't have any interactive elements at all and from its index page you could select <small>(almost)</small> every individual part of the story. After "antimoon" released I realized how ridiculous it was to get through {bios} and had been wanting to change it for years.

Anyway, "bio" was not initially planned to even be a compilation at first. It began with just writing quick poems in TXT files, since Microsoft Word was too slow to boot up for something that was really just a rough draft, but eventually I grew to like my small collection of these TXT files and decided to indulge the quick plaintext format. When I had a sizable collection, I decided to make it an interactive webpage where you could choose exactly which entry you wanted to read. That was an important part of the presentation and theme of "bio", and I see it as a complete work that is made of entries. The entries themselves are not meant to stand alone.

"bio2" wasn't even supposed to happen. It was written the semester after the original "bio" was compiled, and it only exists because I grew to love the format of poetry I did with "bio" and didn't want to stop writing in that style. I think the theme of not wanting to move on is kind of present in "bio2". Overall, I'm actually not quite pleased with "bio2" in hindsight, and it's only included here for the sake of completion. While all of this falls under the category of "teenage poetry", all of this is abstract enough to not make me actually *cringe* and I still appreciate most of it... but "bio2" does make me cringe a bit. Especially "butter butter butter.txt"... don't be surprised if you find that I deleted it one day.

"bio3" was *definitely* not supposed to happen. I even joked about it when thinking up new things I wanted to write. However... it ultimately happened. "bio3" is distinct for a few reasons. It was written in a physical notebook before later being transcribed digitally. The entry titles are simply date IDs, and the UI is completely different. It also has some kind of overarching story (or rather 3 parallel stories).

For this updated version, while "bio" and "bio2" were mostly preserved from their original releases, "bio3" was changed pretty significantly. Instead of being a collection you can browse through all at once, "bio3" was changed to be more of an "event" that runs every year. Every year after it came out, I would personally go back to reading "bio3" on the date I wrote the entries on, only stopping myself because I thought that was the more interesting way of experiencing it. When redoing the code for this collection, I decided I'd finally make that the canonical way of experiencing bio3. I also changed the subtitle of bio3, from French (which I do not know at all) to Japanese (which I know at least a little bit of). I don't know why I even gave it a French subtitle originally.

The bio and bio 2 extras sections comprise of throwaway TXT files written in nested folders inside the bio and bio2 folders. They were initially packed in as extras in a .ZIP file release of bio + bio2 that I made back in the day to send to a few friends. Their pages also re-use assets originally used in the Alternate Reality Game puzzles present in the original version of {bios}. "bio3 addendum" is slightly different, as it was written a semester after the original bio3. It was originally a secret page included in the original ARG section of {bios}, although I guarantee that no one ever reached it.

Thank you for checking out {bios}. Assorted thanks go to:
	-D. Pischke
	-C. Gielda
	-J. Jamison
	-Computer 31 in that library
	
In this little author's note, I will probably not explain any of the entries to keep
that feeling of surealness...

...Okay I can't resist revealing just one secret!

"x!.txt" is about my math homework haha.
	--Natalie Martin

